.TH TTCHTTP 3 19-FEB-2024 ttc_socket-manpages
.SH NAME



ttc_http_new_socket, ttc_http_new_socket_hints, ttc_http_socket_poll, ttc_http_socket_peek,
ttc_http_socket_read, ttc_http_socket_send_request, ttc_http_socket_send_data, ttc_http_socket_free

.SH LIBRARY
TTCHTTP socket functions (ttc-http, -lttc-http)

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.PP
.B "ttc_http_socket_t *ttc_http_new_socket(const char *host, const char *port, SSL_CTX *ctx);"
.B "ttc_http_socket_t *ttc_http_new_socket_hints(const char *host, const char *port, SSL_CTX *ctx,
.B "                                             const struct addrinfo *hints);"
.B "int ttc_http_socket_poll(ttc_http_socket_t *sock, short events, short *revents);"
.B "int ttc_http_socket_peek(ttc_http_socket_t *sock, void *buf, size_t in, size_t *out);"
.B "int ttc_http_socket_read(ttc_http_socket_t *sock, void *buf, size_t in, size_t *out);"
.B "int ttc_http_socket_send_request(ttc_http_socket_t *sock, ttc_http_request_t *request);"
.B "int ttc_http_socket_send_data(ttc_http_socket_t *sock, void *data, uint64_t length);"
.B "void ttc_http_socket_free(ttc_http_socket_t *socket);"
.PP

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B These functions provide an abstraction to write a request to a socket from a ttc_http_request_t
along with obfuscating the difference between a unencrypted plain text socket and a SSL socket.

.B ttc_http_new_socket, ttc_http_new_socket_hints. Both of these create a new socket if
ttc_http_new_socket is called it will attempt to create a SOCK Stream through the use of
getaddrinfo. However if a different socket type is desired it can be created with
ttc_http_new_socket_hints, where the hints value is the hints to be passed to getaddrinfo.

.B ttc_http_socket_free frees a socket and memory relating to it.

.B ttc_http_socket_peek, ttc_http_socket_read read data from the socket, in is the amount of bytes
desired to be read/the overall buffer size, *out is a point to size_t which is the actual size read,
buffer is the buffer for data to be read into. Returns 1 on success and 0 on error.

.B ttc_http_socket_poll, poll the socket for desired events and return the revents in the revents
pointer passed into the function.

.B ttc_http_socket_send_data, ttc_http_socket_send_request. Send either raw data to a socket or send
a preconfigured ttc_http_request_t to the socket. Returns 1 on success, 0 on failure.

.SH RETURN VALUES
.nf
.PP
.B ttc_http_socket_send_request, ttc_http_socket_send_data, ttc_http_socket_peek, ttc_http_socket_read
.B 	1 = success.
.B 	0 = error. You can get more information via errno.

.B ttc_http_new_socket, ttc_http_new_socket_hints - returns either a valid pointer or NULL in case
of an error
.PP

.SH DATA STRUCTURES
.nf
.PP

.B ttc_http_socket_t is a opaque structure containing the socket interface.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR SSL_new(3)
.BR SSL_CTX_new(3)
.BR ssl(7)
.BR ttc-requests(3)
